# Risk Prediction of Gas Wells Based on the Existing Inactive Wells in Alberta

Alberta has an estimated 95,000 inactive and 2,963 orphan wells as of May 1, 2020. With growing number of inactive wells in Alberta, a study on risk classes and abandonment complications of these wells would be informative for oil and gas contractors and service providers. These inactive wells are grouped into three classes of low, medium, and high risks. A well risk type is mostly determined by its well type (e.g. fluid type disposal, injection, etc.), oil and gas production history, H2S content. Both suspension and abandonment requirements vary based on AER risk assessment. If the probability of risk category of a well at certain coordinates can be predicted within their first few months of production (or before well completion stage), operators can proactively design a remediation program which addresses the concerns, and therefore, reduce the costs later at the suspension and abandonment stage.
In this report, public data from AER and geoSCOUT have been used with six different algorithms to predict the risk category of gas wells based on the existing data. The predictive models used in this report performed better than random guessing. Out of these six predictors, Random Forest performed better than other models with the Accuracy and F1 Score of 0.91. For Random Forest model, TVD has the highest importance followed by gas production data. 
It is highly recommended to use these models with drilling data for prediction of risk classes. However, only production data and some limited well properties were available. 
